README.md, before:

# webdavfs

## A FUSE filesystem for WEBDAV shares.

Most filesystem drivers for Webdav shares act somewhat like a mirror;
if a file is read it's first downloaded then cached in its entirety
on a local drive, then read from there. Writing files is similar or
even worse- a partial update to a file might involve downloading it first,
modifying it, then uploading it again. In many cases that is not optimal.

This filesystem driver behaves like a network filesystem. It doesn't
cache anything locally, it just sends out partial reads/writes over the
network.

For that to work, you need partial write support- and unfortunately,
there is no standard for that. See
https://blog.sphere.chronosempire.org.uk/2012/11/21/webdav-and-the-http-patch-nightmare

However, there is support in Apache (the webserver, using mod_dav) and
SabreDav (a php webserver server library, used by e.g. NextCloud)
for partial writes. So we detect if it's Apache or SabreDav we're talking
to and then use their specific methods to partially update files.

## What is working

Basic filesystem operations.

- files: create/delete/read/write/truncate/seek
- directories: mkdir rmdir readdir

## What is not yet working

- locking

## What will not ever work

- change permissions (all files are 644, all dirs are 755)
- change user/group
- devices / fifos / chardev / blockdev etc
- query filesystem size (df / vfsstat)
- truncate(2) / ftruncate(2) for lengths between 1 .. currentfilesize - 1

This is basically because these are mostly just missing properties
from webdav.

## How to install and use.

First you need to install golang, git, fuse, and set up your environment:

```
$ su -m
Password:
# apt-get install golang
# apt-get install git
# apt-get install fuse
# exit
$ cd
$ mkdir pkg bin src
$ export GOPATH=$HOME
```

Now with go and git installed, get a copy of this github repository:

```
$ cd src
$ mkdir -p github.com/miquels
$ cd github.com/miquels
$ git clone https://github.com/miquels/webdavfs
$ cd webdavfs
```

You're now ready to build the binary:

```
$ go get
$ go build
```

And install it:

```
$ su -m
Password:
# cp webdavfs /sbin/mount.webdavfs
```

Using it is simple as:
```
# mount -t webdavfs -ousername=you,password=pass https://webdav.where.ever/subdir /mnt
```

## Mount options

| Option | Description |
| --- | --- |
| allow_root		| If mounted as normal user, allow access by root |
| allow_other		| Allow access by others than the mount owner. This |
|			| also sets "default_permisions" |
| default_permissions	| As per fuse documentation |
| no_default_permissions | Don't set "default_permissions" with "allow_other" |
| ro			| Read only |
| uid			| User ID for filesystem |
| gid			| Group ID for filesystem. |
| mode			| Mode for files/directories on the filesystem (600, 666, etc). |
|			| Files will never have the executable bit on, directories always. |
| password		| Password wofebdav user |
| username		| Username of webdav user |
| async_read		| As per fuse documentation |
| nonempty		| As per fuse documentation |
| maxconns              | Maximum number of parallel connections to the webdav
|                       | server (default 8)
| maxidleconns          | Maximum number of idle connections (default 8)

If the webdavfs program is called via `mount -t webdavfs` or as `mount.webdav`,
it will fork, re-exec and run in the background. In that case it will remove
the username and password options from the command line, and communicate them
via the environment instead.

The environment options for username and password are WEBDAV_USERNAME and
WEBDAV_PASSWORD, respectively.

In the future it will also be possible to read the credentials from a
configuration file.

## TODO

- maxconns doesn't work yet. this is complicated with the Go HTTP client.
- add configuration file
- add more configurable (and nice) debug logging
- timeout handling and interrupt handling
- we use busy-loop locking, yuck. use semaphores built on channels.
- rewrite fuse.go code to use the bazil/fuse abstraction instead of bazil/fuse/fs.  
  perhaps switch to  
  - https://github.com/hanwen/go-fuse
  - https://github.com/jacobsa/fuse

## Unix filesystem extensions for webdav.

Not ever going to happen, but if you wanted a more unix-like
experience and better performance, here are a few ideas:

- Content-Type: for unix pipes / chardevs / etc
- contentsize property (read-write)
- inodenumber property
- unix properties like uid/gid/mode
- DELETE Depth 0 for collections (no delete if non-empty)
- return updated PROPSTAT information after operations
  like PUT / DELETE / MKCOL / MOVE

Commit message:

add instructions for jessie-backports

README.md, after:

# webdavfs

## A FUSE filesystem for WEBDAV shares.

Most filesystem drivers for Webdav shares act somewhat like a mirror;
if a file is read it's first downloaded then cached in its entirety
on a local drive, then read from there. Writing files is similar or
even worse- a partial update to a file might involve downloading it first,
modifying it, then uploading it again. In many cases that is not optimal.

This filesystem driver behaves like a network filesystem. It doesn't
cache anything locally, it just sends out partial reads/writes over the
network.

For that to work, you need partial write support- and unfortunately,
there is no standard for that. See
https://blog.sphere.chronosempire.org.uk/2012/11/21/webdav-and-the-http-patch-nightmare

However, there is support in Apache (the webserver, using mod_dav) and
SabreDav (a php webserver server library, used by e.g. NextCloud)
for partial writes. So we detect if it's Apache or SabreDav we're talking
to and then use their specific methods to partially update files.

## What is working

Basic filesystem operations.

- files: create/delete/read/write/truncate/seek
- directories: mkdir rmdir readdir

## What is not yet working

- locking

## What will not ever work

- change permissions (all files are 644, all dirs are 755)
- change user/group
- devices / fifos / chardev / blockdev etc
- query filesystem size (df / vfsstat)
- truncate(2) / ftruncate(2) for lengths between 1 .. currentfilesize - 1

This is basically because these are mostly just missing properties
from webdav.

## How to install and use.

First you need to install golang, git, fuse, and set up your environment.

Note that you need at least Go 1.4 (probably 1.6). If you're on Debian,
everything before Debian 8 (jessie) is too old. On jessie you need to
add the jessie-backports source, then install go from backports.

```
# echo "deb http://ftp.debian.org/debian jessie-backports main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jessie-backports.list"
# apt-get update
# apt-get install -t jessie-backports golang
```

Then if your Go version is up to date, continue:

```
$ su -m
Password:
# apt-get install golang
# apt-get install git
# apt-get install fuse
# exit
$ cd
$ mkdir pkg bin src
$ export GOPATH=$HOME
```

Now with go and git installed, get a copy of this github repository:

```
$ cd src
$ mkdir -p github.com/miquels
$ cd github.com/miquels
$ git clone https://github.com/miquels/webdavfs
$ cd webdavfs
```

You're now ready to build the binary:

```
$ go get
$ go build
```

And install it:

```
$ su -m
Password:
# cp webdavfs /sbin/mount.webdavfs
```

Using it is simple as:
```
# mount -t webdavfs -ousername=you,password=pass https://webdav.where.ever/subdir /mnt
```

## Mount options

| Option | Description |
| --- | --- |
| allow_root		| If mounted as normal user, allow access by root |
| allow_other		| Allow access by others than the mount owner. This |
|			| also sets "default_permisions" |
| default_permissions	| As per fuse documentation |
| no_default_permissions | Don't set "default_permissions" with "allow_other" |
| ro			| Read only |
| uid			| User ID for filesystem |
| gid			| Group ID for filesystem. |
| mode			| Mode for files/directories on the filesystem (600, 666, etc). |
|			| Files will never have the executable bit on, directories always. |
| password		| Password wofebdav user |
| username		| Username of webdav user |
| async_read		| As per fuse documentation |
| nonempty		| As per fuse documentation |
| maxconns              | Maximum number of parallel connections to the webdav
|                       | server (default 8)
| maxidleconns          | Maximum number of idle connections (default 8)

If the webdavfs program is called via `mount -t webdavfs` or as `mount.webdav`,
it will fork, re-exec and run in the background. In that case it will remove
the username and password options from the command line, and communicate them
via the environment instead.

The environment options for username and password are WEBDAV_USERNAME and
WEBDAV_PASSWORD, respectively.

In the future it will also be possible to read the credentials from a
configuration file.

## TODO

- maxconns doesn't work yet. this is complicated with the Go HTTP client.
- add configuration file
- add more configurable (and nice) debug logging
- timeout handling and interrupt handling
- we use busy-loop locking, yuck. use semaphores built on channels.
- rewrite fuse.go code to use the bazil/fuse abstraction instead of bazil/fuse/fs.  
  perhaps switch to  
  - https://github.com/hanwen/go-fuse
  - https://github.com/jacobsa/fuse

## Unix filesystem extensions for webdav.

Not ever going to happen, but if you wanted a more unix-like
experience and better performance, here are a few ideas:

- Content-Type: for unix pipes / chardevs / etc
- contentsize property (read-write)
- inodenumber property
- unix properties like uid/gid/mode
- DELETE Depth 0 for collections (no delete if non-empty)
- return updated PROPSTAT information after operations
  like PUT / DELETE / MKCOL / MOVE
